web: flatten frontend packages inside of the `client` folder (#19378)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: client/README.md

# Frontend packages

## List

> - **web**: The web-application deployed to http://sourcegraph.com/

Reviewer: Extreme nit:
```suggestion
- **web**: The web application deployed to http://sourcegraph.com/
```

> - **browser**: The Sourcegraph browser-extension adds tooltips to code on different code-hosts. [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/sourcegraph/dgjhfomjieaadpoljlnidmbgkdffpack?hl=en).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **browser**: The Sourcegraph browser extension adds tooltips to code on different code hosts. [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/sourcegraph/dgjhfomjieaadpoljlnidmbgkdffpack?hl=en).
```

> - **browser**: The Sourcegraph browser extension adds tooltips to code on different code hosts. [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/sourcegraph/dgjhfomjieaadpoljlnidmbgkdffpack?hl=en).

Reviewer 2: Note this contains not just Chrome, but also Firefox, Safari and the native code host integrations for Phabricator, Bitbucket and Gitlab.

> - **eslint-plugin-sourcegraph**: Not published package with custom ESLint rules for Sourcegraph. Isn't intended for reuse by other repositories in the Sourcegraph org.

Reviewer 2: Most of these packages aren't published, right?

Author: Right, I've added `published as` note only to published packages.

- **extension-api**: The package with types for the [Sourcegraph extension API](https://unpkg.com/sourcegraph/dist/docs/index.html) ([`sourcegraph.d.ts`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/packages/extension-api/src/sourcegraph.d.ts)). Published as `sourcegraph`.

> - **extension-api-types**: The Sourcegraph extension API types for client applications. Published as `@sourcegraph/extension-api-types`.

Reviewer: From the descriptions, it's not clear to me what the difference is between `extension-api` and `extension-api-types`.

Author: Added more context. Let me know if the description is still confusing.

- **shared**: Contains common TypeScript/React/SCSS client code shared between the browser extension and the web app. Everything in this package is code-host agnostic.

> - **branded**: Contains React components and implements the visual design language we use across our web app and e.g. in the options menu of the browser extension.

Reviewer: Assuming I understand correctly, maybe you can mention here that over time, components should be moved into the `wildcard` package? Otherwise it's not clear from the descriptions what the difference is.

> - **branded**: Contains React components and implements the visual design language we use across our web app and e.g. in the options menu of the browser extension. Over time, components from `shared` and `branded` packages should be moved into the `wildcard` package.

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify whether _all_ components (and global styles) should be moved over? For example, do you see the `HoverOverlay` and the `Panel` components being moved over?

Reviewer 3: Any of these components with a strong case for reusability should be moved over, so if we're using `HoverOverlay` and `Panel` in two or more different areas then it should live in `wildcard`. Otherwise the components should be better colocated with the code where they're actually used

Reviewer 2: That's a great one-sentence rule to add to this README :)

`HoverOverlay` is used in two places: In one place in the browser extension and in one place in the webapp. Hence I wouldn't necessarily say there's a "strong case for reusability", but it cannot be colocated with where it's used, because it is used in both the browser extension and the webapp (hence the `shared` folder). It's also a code-host-agnostic component, i.e. **not** _branded_ with our design system. It would be great if there was an easy rule of thumb documented here that would make it obvious whether it should go into `wildcard` or not.

> - **wildcard**: Package that encapsulates storybook configuration and contains newly added Wildcard design system components. Components added to this package should obey to the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **wildcard**: Package that encapsulates storybook configuration and contains newly added Wildcard design system components. Components added to this package should obey the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.
```

> - **wildcard**: Package that encapsulates storybook configuration and contains newly added Wildcard design system components. Components added to this package should obey the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: > Components added to this package should obey the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.

This sentence implies that components added to the other folders should **not** follow the latest rules and conventions - but shouldn't any component added anywhere do?

Author: I see how this comment is not clear enough. I wanted to convey here that there might be some rules, practices that we will be able to enforce only inside the `wildcard` package. For example, we want to investigate CSS modularity. If we decide to use modular CSS for new components, it will be easy to enforce it for the `wildcard` package because we have only one component there right now. But we might encounter some issues integrating new practices for all packages at once. Let me know if it makes sense. I will think about how to update this point.

Reviewer 3: I would say remove `Components added to this package should obey the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.` here. I think more specific information about that is better suited as part of wildcard documentation

Reviewer 2: Agree with @umpox, I think it would also be good to look at enforcing this with Stylelint/ESLint rules. People won't necessarily read this sentence right here before contributing so that scales better.

Reviewer: @felixfbecker I agree that we should enforce as much as possible automatically, but a lot of this will go beyond syntactic issues and will be about higher-level patterns. One thing I've heard from several people here is that it's not clear which patterns are deprecated or not, so when people follow the patterns they see in other code, they can't tell what is "new" and what is "old". Since the `wildcard` package provides a clean separation, the idea is to be a bit stricter there so that people know that's a reference for best practices.

Reviewer 2: That's a good point. But I think to solve that it should be made clear then what those patterns are, which this sentence currently doesn't do, hence it may just increase confusion more. Is there a document that can be linked to from here that lists them?

I think the key words here are also "added" and "should". I don't see a reason why components _added_ to the other folders _should_ not also follow the latest guidelines, so the implication that they shouldn't seems dangerous (implying that outside `wildcard` "anything goes"). For example, @umpox just documented accessibility standards, and those standards should be followed when adding components to any folder, not just `wildcard`.

Maybe just saying that "All components in this folder must follow the latest standards [...]" (talking about existing components, not just added, and making it a requirement instead of a guideline) would make this more clear.

Reviewer 3: Yeah I think as this is just general documentation so we don't have to worry about being too explicit here + we definitely don't want to cause any confusion. I'd say we should drop the `newly added` and `latest` parts of this text too. We can then just actually document exactly how Wildcard might differ in more specific docs.

So just:

```suggestion
- **wildcard**: Package that encapsulates storybook configuration and contains our Wildcard design system components.
```

> - **wildcard**: Package that encapsulates storybook configuration and contains newly added Wildcard design system components. Components added to this package should obey the latest rules and conventions added as a part of improving frontend infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: Does the wildcard folder support code-host-agnostic (i.e. unbranded) components? I'd assume so since the sentence above says that component from `shared` (not just `branded`) should be moved over, but it may be good then to explain where they go, e.g. have a `branded/` and `unbranded/` subfolder of `wildcard/`.

Reviewer 3: It should do, we haven't yet standardised an approach and documented this yet, https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/19140 will address this.

## Further migration plan

1. Fix circular dependency in TS project-references graph **wildcard** package should not rely on **web** and probably **shared**, **branded** too. Ideally it should be an independent self-contained package.

2. Decide on package naming and update existing package names. Especially it should be done for a **shared** package because we have multiple `shared` folders inside of other packages. It's hard to understand from where dependency is coming from and it's not possible to refactor import paths using find-and-replace.

3. Investigate if we can painlessly switch to `npm` workspaces.

4. Content of packages **shared** and **branded** should be moved to **wildcard** and refactored using the latest FE rules and conventions. Having different packages clearly communicates the migration plan. Developers first should look for components in the **wildcard** package and then fall-back to **legacy** packages if **wildcard** doesn't have the solution to their problem yet.

> 5. **shared** contains utility functions, types, polyfills, etc which is not a part of the UI-kit. These modules should be moved into **utils** package and other new packages: e.g. **api** for GraphQL client and type generators, etc.

Reviewer: Nit: I think we should avoid the term "UI-kit" as there are multiple other well-known libraries called "UI kit". Can we say "component library" or "Wildcard component library" instead?

> 5. **shared** contains utility functions, types, polyfills, etc which is not a part of the Wildcard component library. These modules should be moved into **utils** package and other new packages: e.g. **api** for GraphQL client and type generators, etc.

Reviewer 2: I like having shared broken up into more packages, with their own tsconfigs 👍🏻
